HISTORY:

60 y.o. female with a history of Bilateral chronic cerebral infarctions, admitted
with nausea vomiting and facial droop.  Patient had one hour focal motor seizure today,
characterized by left arm twitching, now obtunded referred for routine EEG for screening for
subclinical seizures.  The patient was initially obtunded, but by 4 PM was more awake and
interactive



MEDICATIONS:


Vimpat, Keppra, others




SEDATION: Ativan 6 mg


TECHNIQUE:


Continuous Digital Video 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG)  Monitor was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with T1/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a
technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and verbal stimulation.


__________________________________




Day 1 May 4-5,  2016

EEG BACKGROUND:


The initial background is characterized by a markedly asymmetric pattern.  The right hemisphere is
initially markedly suppressed.  The left hemisphere demonstrates a lower voltage pattern with 12.5
Hz brief bursts of activity of less than 2 seconds duration.  As the recording continues, both
hemispheres become more vigorous with still, a lower voltage pattern on the right but a low-voltage
slow pattern and more alpha and theta activity on the left




Marked generalized slowing is present.


Focal slowing is present.

SLEEP: asymmetric vertex waves and spindles notes on the left.

EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:


O2 sharp waves noted in stage II sleep


OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: By the early evening, stimulation of the patient produces eye-opening
any more symmetric low-voltage slow pattern


EVENTS:


clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 60  BPM IRRG is captured on a single EKG lead.


IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal LTM  EEG due to:

1. initially markedly slow and asymmetric pattern

2. right occipital sharp waves


3. improvement to a more continuous but still asymmetric pattern



_____________________________________________

Day 2 May 5-6  2016

EEG BACKGROUND:









The background is characterized by a markedly asymmetric pattern.  The right hemisphere remains
suppressed, particularly in sleep.  During wakefulness, the right hemisphere is now starting to
demonstrate a more continuous pattern of theta.  The left hemisphere demonstrates a lower voltage
pattern with 12.5 Hz brief bursts of activity of less than 2 seconds duration.  As the recording
continues, both hemispheres become more vigorous with wakefulness characterized by a theta
background again asymmetric and more suppressed on the right but overall improving in this section
of the record




SLEEP: asymmetric vertex waves and spindles notes on the left.


Marked generalized slowing is present.

Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

O2 sharp waves noted in stage II sleep and wakefulness, visible even when the patient starts removed
the electrodes



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 50  BPM  is captured on a single EKG lead.


Day 2 IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal LTM  EEG due to:

1. Markedly slow and asymmetric pattern

2. right occipital sharp waves


3. improvement to a continuous but still asymmetric pattern in wakefulness



____________________________________________

Day 2  Part 2 May 6  2016  6 AM -11:30 AM

EEG BACKGROUND:


The background is characterized by a markedly asymmetric pattern.  The right hemisphere remains
suppressed, particularly in sleep.  During wakefulness, the right hemisphere is now starting to
demonstrate a more continuous pattern of theta.  The left hemisphere demonstrates a lower voltage
pattern with 12.5 Hz brief bursts of activity of less than 2 seconds duration.  As the recording
continues, both hemispheres become more vigorous with wakefulness characterized by a theta
background again asymmetric and more suppressed on the right but overall improving in this section
of the record.  By the morning of the sixth, the alpha rhythm is starting to reemerge on the left.




SLEEP: asymmetric vertex waves and spindles notes on the left.

Marked generalized slowing is present.




Focal slowing is present.



EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:

O2 sharp waves noted in stage II sleep and wakefulness, visible even when the patient starts removed
the electrodes



OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):


None


HEART RATE:


A heart rate of 50-60  BPM  is captured on a single EKG lead.


Day 2 Part 2 IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:


This is an abnormal LTM  EEG due to:

1. Markedly slow and asymmetric pattern

2. right occipital sharp waves


3. improvement to a continuous but still asymmetric pattern in wakefulness



-----------------------------------------------------------------


FINAL IMPRESSION:



This is abnormal video EEG due to:



1. initially markedly suppressed pattern from the right hemisphere

2.  Right occipital sharp waves and spikes noted throughout the record, wakefulness and sleep without
additional seizures.


3. right greater than left generalized slowing, and improving over the course of the record


FINAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:



These findings support structural or functional process on the right with ongoing potential for
additional seizures but overall improvement in cerebral activity from both hemispheres



